docs/misc/state_witness_size_limits.md, before:

### State witness size limits

Some limits were introduced to keep the size of `ChunkStateWitness` reasonable.
`ChunkStateWitness` contains all the incoming transactions and receipts that will be processed during chunk application and in theory a single receipt could be tens of megabatytes in size. Distributing a `ChunkStateWitness` this large would be troublesome, so we limit the size and number of transactions, receipts, etc. The limits aim to keep the total uncompressed size of `ChunkStateWitness` under 16MiB.

There are two types of size limits:
* Hard limit - the size must be below this limit, anything else is considered invalid
* Soft limit - things are added until the limit is exceeded, after that things stop being added. The last added thing is allowed to slightly exceed the limit.

The limits are:
* `max_transaction_size = 1.5 MiB`
    * All transactions must be below 1.5 MiB, otherwise they'll be considered invalid and rejected.
    * Previously was 4MiB, now reduced to 1.5MiB
* `max_receipt_size - 4 MiB`:
    * All receipts must be below 4 MiB, otherwise they'll be considered invalid and rejected.
    * Previously there was no limit on receipt size. Set to 4MiB, might be reduced to 1.5MiB in the future to match the transaction limit.
* `combined_transactions_size_limit - 2 MiB`
    * Hard limit on total size of transactions from this and previous chunk. `ChunkStateWitness` contains transactions from two chunks, this limit applies to the sum of their sizes.
* `new_transactions_validation_state_size_soft_limit - 500 KiB`
    * Validating new transactions generates storage proof (recorded trie nodes), which has to be limited. Once transaction validation generates more storage proof than this limit, the chunk producer stops adding new transactions to the chunk.
* `per_receipt_storage_proof_size_limit - 4 MB`
    * Executing a receipt generates storage proof. A single receipt is allowed to generate at most 4MB of storage proof. This is a hard limit, receipts which generate more than that will fail.
* `main_storage_proof_size_soft_limit - 3 MB`
    * This is a limit on the total size of storage proof generated by receipts in one chunk. Once receipts generate more storage proof than this limit, the chunk producer stops processing receipts and moves the rest to the delayed queue.
    * It's a soft limit, which means that the total size of storage proof could reach 7 MB (2.99MB + one receipt which generates 4MB of storage proof)
    * Due to implementation details it's hard to find the exact amount of storage proof generated by a receipt, so an upper bound estimation is used instead. This upper bound assumes that every removal generates additional 2000 bytes of storage proof, so receipts which perform a lot of trie removals might be limited more than theoretically applicable.
* `outgoing_receipts_usual_size_limit - 100 KiB`
    * Limit on the size of outgoing receipts to another shard. Needed to keep the size of `source_receipt_proofs` small.
    * On most block heights a shard isn't allowed to send receipts larger than 100 KiB to another shard.
* `outgoing_receipts_big_size_limit - 4.5 MiB`
    * On every block height there's one special "allowed shard" which is allowed to send larger receipts, up to 4.5 MiB in total.
    * A receiving shard will receive receipts from `num_shards - 1` shards using the usual limit and one shard using the big limit.

In total that gives 2 MiB + 500 KiB + 7MB + 5*100 KiB + 4.5 MiB ~= 14 MiB of maximum witness size

Commit message:

Improve documentation about state witness size limits (#11566)
Added two new paragraphs to make things clearer

docs/misc/state_witness_size_limits.md, after:

## State witness size limits

Some limits were introduced to keep the size of `ChunkStateWitness` reasonable.
`ChunkStateWitness` contains all the incoming transactions and receipts that will be processed during chunk application and in theory a single receipt could be tens of megabatytes in size. Distributing a `ChunkStateWitness` this large would be troublesome, so we limit the size and number of transactions, receipts, etc. The limits aim to keep the total uncompressed size of `ChunkStateWitness` under 16MiB.

There are two types of size limits:
* Hard limit - the size must be below this limit, anything else is considered invalid
* Soft limit - things are added until the limit is exceeded, after that things stop being added. The last added thing is allowed to slightly exceed the limit.

The limits are:
* `max_transaction_size = 1.5 MiB`
    * All transactions must be below 1.5 MiB, otherwise they'll be considered invalid and rejected.
    * Previously was 4MiB, now reduced to 1.5MiB
* `max_receipt_size - 4 MiB`:
    * All receipts must be below 4 MiB, otherwise they'll be considered invalid and rejected.
    * Previously there was no limit on receipt size. Set to 4MiB, might be reduced to 1.5MiB in the future to match the transaction limit.
* `combined_transactions_size_limit - 2 MiB`
    * Hard limit on total size of transactions from this and previous chunk. `ChunkStateWitness` contains transactions from two chunks, this limit applies to the sum of their sizes.
* `new_transactions_validation_state_size_soft_limit - 500 KiB`
    * Validating new transactions generates storage proof (recorded trie nodes), which has to be limited. Once transaction validation generates more storage proof than this limit, the chunk producer stops adding new transactions to the chunk.
* `per_receipt_storage_proof_size_limit - 4 MB`
    * Executing a receipt generates storage proof. A single receipt is allowed to generate at most 4MB of storage proof. This is a hard limit, receipts which generate more than that will fail.
* `main_storage_proof_size_soft_limit - 3 MB`
    * This is a limit on the total size of storage proof generated by receipts in one chunk. Once receipts generate more storage proof than this limit, the chunk producer stops processing receipts and moves the rest to the delayed queue.
    * It's a soft limit, which means that the total size of storage proof could reach 7 MB (2.99MB + one receipt which generates 4MB of storage proof)
    * Due to implementation details it's hard to find the exact amount of storage proof generated by a receipt, so an upper bound estimation is used instead. This upper bound assumes that every removal generates additional 2000 bytes of storage proof, so receipts which perform a lot of trie removals might be limited more than theoretically applicable.
* `outgoing_receipts_usual_size_limit - 100 KiB`
    * Limit on the size of outgoing receipts to another shard. Needed to keep the size of `source_receipt_proofs` small.
    * On most block heights a shard isn't allowed to send receipts larger than 100 KiB to another shard.
* `outgoing_receipts_big_size_limit - 4.5 MiB`
    * On every block height there's one special "allowed shard" which is allowed to send larger receipts, up to 4.5 MiB in total.
    * A receiving shard will receive receipts from `num_shards - 1` shards using the usual limit and one shard using the big limit.

In total that gives 2 MiB + 500 KiB + 7MB + 5*100 KiB + 4.5 MiB ~= 14 MiB of maximum witness size

### Validating the limits

Chunk validators have to verify that chunk producer respected all of the limits while producing the chunk. This means that validators also have to keep track of recorded storage proof by recording all trie accesses and they have to enforce the limits.
If it turns out that some limits weren't respected, the validators will generate a different result of chunk application and they won't endorse the chunk.

### Missing chunks

When a chunk is mising on a shard, this shard will receive receipts from more than one block height. This could lead to large `source_receipt_proofs` so a mechanism is added to reduce the impact. If there are two or more missing chunks in a row,
the shard is considered fully congested and no new receipts will be sent to it (unless it's the `allowed_shard` to avoid deadlocks).
