docs/protocol_upgrade.md, before:

## Protocol Upgrade

This document describes the entire cycle of how a protocol upgrade is done, from the initial PR to the final release.
It is important for everyone who contributes to the development of the protocol and its client(s) to understand this process.

### Background

At NEAR, we use protocol version to mean the version of the blockchain protocol and is separate from the version of some specific client (such as nearcore), since the protocol version defines the protocol rather than some specific implementation of the protocol.
More concretely, for each epoch, there is a corresponding protocol version that is agreed upon by validators through [a voting mechanism](https://github.com/near/NEPs/blob/master/specs/ChainSpec/Upgradability.md).
Our upgrade scheme dictates that protocol version X is backward compatible with protocol version X-1, so that nodes in the network can seamlessly upgrade into the new protocol.
However, there is **no guarantee** that protocol version X is backward compatible with protocol version X-2.

Despite the upgrade mechanism, rolling out a protocol change can be scary, especially if the change is invasive.
For those changes, we may want to have several months of testing before we are confident that the change itself works and that it doesn't break other parts of the system.

### Nightly Protocol features

To make protocol upgrades more robust, we introduce the concept of nightly protocol version together with the protocol feature flags to allow easy testing of the cutting-edge protocol changes without jeopardizing the stability of the codebase overall.
In `Cargo.toml` file of the crates we have in nearcore, we introduce rust compile-time features `nightly_protocol` and `nightly_protocol_features`
```
nightly_protocol = []
nightly_protocol_features = [...]
```
where `nightly_protocol` is a marker feature that indicates that we are on nightly protocol whereas `nightly_protocol_features` is a collection of new protocol features.
For example, when we introduce EVM as a new protocol change, suppose the current protocol version is 40, then we would do the following change in Cargo.toml:
```
nightly_protocol = []
nightly_protocol_features = [“protocol_features_evm”, ...]
```
In [core/primitives/src/version.rs](../core/primitives/src/version.rs), we would change the protocol version by:
```
#[cfg(feature = “nightly_protocol”)]
pub const PROTOCOL_VERSION: u32 = 100;
#[cfg(not(feature = “nightly_protocol”)]
pub const PROTOCOL_VERSION: u32 = 40;
```
This way the stable versions remain unaffected after the change. Note that nightly protocol version intentionally starts at a much higher number to make the distinction between stable protocol and nightly protocol more clear.

To determine whether a protocol feature is enabled, we do the following:
- We maintain a `ProtocolFeature` enum where each variant corresponds to some protocol feature. For nightly protocol features,
the variant is gated by the corresponding rust compile-time feature. 
- We implement a function `protocol_version` to return, for each variant, the corresponding protocol version in which the
feature is enabled.
- When we need to decide whether to use the new feature based on the protocol version of the current network, we can simply compare it to the protocol version of the feature. To make this simpler, we also introduced a macro `checked_feature`

For more details, please refer to [core/primitives/src/version.rs](../core/primitives/src/version.rs).

### Feature Gating

It is worth mentioning that there are two types of checks related to protocol features:
- For stable features, we check whether they should be enabled by checking the protocol version of the current epoch.
This does not involve any rust compile-time features.
  
- For nightly features, we have both the check of protocol version and the rust compile-time feature gating.

### Testing

Nightly protocol features allow us to enable the most bleeding-edge code in some testing environment. We can choose to
enable all nightly protocol features by
```
cargo build -p neard --release --features nightly_protocol_features
```
or enable some specific protocol feature by
```
cargo build -p neard --release --features nightly_protocol,<protocol_feature>
```

In practice, we have all nightly protocol features enabled for Nayduck tests and on betanet, which is updated daily.

### Feature Stabilization

When we are ready to make a new release, we examine which features should be stabilized and for those that should be, we
remove the rust feature gating everywhere.
In addition, we increment the `PROTOCOL_VERSION` constant and change the `protocol_version` implementation to map the stabilized features to the new protocol version.

Commit message:

doc: update feature stabilization process

docs/protocol_upgrade.md, after:

## Protocol Upgrade

This document describes the entire cycle of how a protocol upgrade is done, from the initial PR to the final release.
It is important for everyone who contributes to the development of the protocol and its client(s) to understand this process.

### Background

At NEAR, we use protocol version to mean the version of the blockchain protocol and is separate from the version of some specific client (such as nearcore), since the protocol version defines the protocol rather than some specific implementation of the protocol.
More concretely, for each epoch, there is a corresponding protocol version that is agreed upon by validators through [a voting mechanism](https://github.com/near/NEPs/blob/master/specs/ChainSpec/Upgradability.md).
Our upgrade scheme dictates that protocol version X is backward compatible with protocol version X-1, so that nodes in the network can seamlessly upgrade into the new protocol.
However, there is **no guarantee** that protocol version X is backward compatible with protocol version X-2.

Despite the upgrade mechanism, rolling out a protocol change can be scary, especially if the change is invasive.
For those changes, we may want to have several months of testing before we are confident that the change itself works and that it doesn't break other parts of the system.

### Nightly Protocol features

To make protocol upgrades more robust, we introduce the concept of nightly protocol version together with the protocol feature flags to allow easy testing of the cutting-edge protocol changes without jeopardizing the stability of the codebase overall.
In `Cargo.toml` file of the crates we have in nearcore, we introduce rust compile-time features `nightly_protocol` and `nightly_protocol_features`
```
nightly_protocol = []
nightly_protocol_features = [...]
```
where `nightly_protocol` is a marker feature that indicates that we are on nightly protocol whereas `nightly_protocol_features` is a collection of new protocol features.
For example, when we introduce EVM as a new protocol change, suppose the current protocol version is 40, then we would do the following change in Cargo.toml:
```
nightly_protocol = []
nightly_protocol_features = [“protocol_features_evm”, ...]
```
In [core/primitives/src/version.rs](../core/primitives/src/version.rs), we would change the protocol version by:
```
#[cfg(feature = “nightly_protocol”)]
pub const PROTOCOL_VERSION: u32 = 100;
#[cfg(not(feature = “nightly_protocol”)]
pub const PROTOCOL_VERSION: u32 = 40;
```
This way the stable versions remain unaffected after the change. Note that nightly protocol version intentionally starts at a much higher number to make the distinction between stable protocol and nightly protocol more clear.

To determine whether a protocol feature is enabled, we do the following:
- We maintain a `ProtocolFeature` enum where each variant corresponds to some protocol feature. For nightly protocol features,
the variant is gated by the corresponding rust compile-time feature. 
- We implement a function `protocol_version` to return, for each variant, the corresponding protocol version in which the
feature is enabled.
- When we need to decide whether to use the new feature based on the protocol version of the current network, we can simply compare it to the protocol version of the feature. To make this simpler, we also introduced a macro `checked_feature`

For more details, please refer to [core/primitives/src/version.rs](../core/primitives/src/version.rs).

### Feature Gating

It is worth mentioning that there are two types of checks related to protocol features:
- For stable features, we check whether they should be enabled by checking the protocol version of the current epoch.
This does not involve any rust compile-time features.
  
- For nightly features, we have both the check of protocol version and the rust compile-time feature gating.

### Testing

Nightly protocol features allow us to enable the most bleeding-edge code in some testing environment. We can choose to
enable all nightly protocol features by
```
cargo build -p neard --release --features nightly_protocol_features
```
or enable some specific protocol feature by
```
cargo build -p neard --release --features nightly_protocol,<protocol_feature>
```

In practice, we have all nightly protocol features enabled for Nayduck tests and on betanet, which is updated daily.

### Feature Stabilization

New protocol features are introduced first as nightly features and when the author of the feature thinks that
the feature is ready to be stabilized, they should submit a pull request to stabilize the feature using
[this template](../.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE/feature_stabilization.md).
In this pull request, they should the feature gating, increase the `PROTOCOL_VERSION` constant,
and change the `protocol_version` implementation to map the stabilized features to the new protocol version.

A feature stabilization request must be approved by at least **two** [nearcore code owners](https://github.com/orgs/near/teams/nearcore-codeowners)
Unless it is a security related fix, a protocol feature cannot be released until at least two weeks after its stabilization.
This is to ensure that feature implementation and stabilization are not rushed.
